uly, I expect to be in California.
Some of you are going to ask, "What do you plan to do?" I don't have an answer to that question. I do know that
when I am 60, I should be attempting to achieve different personal goals than those which had priority at age 20.
Therefore, unless I now divorce myself from the activity that has consumed virtually all of my time and energies
during the first eighteen years of my adult life, I am unlikely to develop activities that will be appropriate to new
circumstances in subsequent years.
We will have a letter out in the Fall, probably October, elaborating on the liquidation procedure, the investment
advisor suggestion, etc…
Cordially,
Warren E. Buffett
WEB/glk
131

BUFFETT PARTNERSHIP. LTD.
610 KIEWIT PLAZA
OMAHA, NEBRASKA 68131
TELEPHONE 042-4110
October 9th, 1969
To My Partners:
Here is my present estimate of the BPL calendar for the months to come:
(1) This letter - to tell you something of Bill Ruane, the money manager within my knowledge who ranks
the highest when combining the factors of integrity, ability and continued availability to all partners. I
also want to comment upon the present range of expectations involved in deciding on a bond-stock mix.
(2) Late November - the required thirty days formal notice of my intent to retire from the Partnership at the
end of the year.
(3) Early December - a package of publicly available material, as well as some general comments by me
relating to our controlled companies. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (owning the textile business, Illinois
National Bank and Trust Company of Rockford, Illinois, National Indemnity Company and National
Fire and Marine Insurance Company and Sun Newspapers) and Diversified Retailing Company (owning
Hochschild, Kohn & Co. and Associated Cotton Shops). I want you to have ample time to study the
material relating to such companies before you make any decision to hold, sell or buy such securities
after distribution to you in early January. I will solicit written questions from partners (I don't want to
talk to you individually about such companies, as I want all partners to obtain exactly the same
information) and then have a further mailing late in December, giving all questions received relating to
these companies along with my answers, if possible. I still anticipate having a plan enabling partners to
promptly convert such controlled company holdings to cash, if they wish.
(4) About January 5th - (a) a cash distribution amounting to at least 56% (probably more - depending upon
what percentage of our remaining holdings are sold before yearend) of your January 1, 1969 capital, less
any distributions (the regular monthly payments many of you receive) or borrowings by you during
1969, (b) your proportional share of our holdings in Diversified Retailing Company Inc. and Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. I which, if you dispose of them, will bring 30% - 35% (my estimate of value will be
made at yearend) of your January 1, 1969 capital.
We may make substantial additional sales before yearend - if so, the early January cash distribution will
be somewhat larger than the 56% mentioned above. If we don't, such sales will be made during the first
half of 1970 and an interim distribution made. Residual assets will be sold at appropriate times and I
believe not more than 10% of our present asset value will remain after June 30th, 1970 pending a final
distribution when all assets and liabilities have been cleaned up.
Unless there is a further substantial decline in the market. I still expect about a breakeven performance
before any monthly payments for 1969. We were lucky - if we had not been in liquidation this year, our
results would have been significantly worse. Ideas that looked potentially interesting on a "continuing"
basis have on balance performed poorly to date. We have only two items of real size left - one we are
selling as I write this and the other is a holding of limited marketability representing about 7-1/2% of the
outstanding stock of Blue Chip Stamps which we may sell via a registered public offering around
yearend, depending upon market conditions and other factors.
132

(5) March 1st. 1970 - John Harding expects to leave Buffett Partnership. Ltd. and open a branch office in
Omaha for Ruane, Cunniff & Stires. Bill Scott and I will be available at BPL offices to help any
partners who are desirous of purchasing bonds, tax-free or taxable. We will set aside the month of
March to make our services available without cost to those who want to acquire bonds. Because of some
experience we have in analysis and purchasing, as well as the access we have to wholesale markets. I
think it is likely we can save material elements of cost as well as help select better relative values for
those of you who wish to invest in bonds. After April 1st, however, we want to be out of any form of
personal advisory activity.
(6) After March, 1970 - Bill and I will continue to office in Kiewit Plaza, spending a very minor portion of
our time completing the wind-up of BPL. This will mean filing tax returns for 1970 and probably 1971
resolving minor assets and liabilities etc.
Now, to Bill Ruane - we met in Ben Graham's class at Columbia University in 1951 and I have had considerable
opportunity to observe his qualities of character, temperament and intellect since that time. If Susie and I were
to die while our children are minors, he is one of three trustees who have carte blanche on investment matters -
the other two are not available for continuous investment management for all partners, large or small.
There is no way to eliminate the possibility of error when judging humans particularly in regard to future
behavior in an unknown environment. However, decisions have to be made - whether actively or passively - and
I consider Bill to be an exceptionally high probability decision on character and a high probability one on
investment performance. I also consider it likely that Bill will continue as a money manager for many years to
come.
Bill has recently formed a New York Stock Exchange firm, Ruane, Cunniff & Stires, Inc., 85 Broad Street, New
York, N.Y. 10004, telephone number (212) 344-6700. John Harding presently plans to establish an office for the
firm in Omaha about March 1st, 1970. Bill manages accounts individually on a fee basis and also executes
brokerage for the accounts - presently with some portion of the brokerage commissions used to offset a portion
of the investment advisory fee. His method of operation allows monthly withdrawals on a basis similar to BPL -
as a percentage of capital and unrelated to realized or unrealized gain or loss. It is possible he may form some
sort of pooled account but such determinations will be made between him and those of you who elect to go with
him. I, of course, will not be involved with his operation. I am making my list of partners available to him and
he will be writing you fairly soon regarding a trip he plans to make before yearend to Omaha, Los Angeles and
Chicago, so that those of you who wish to meet him may do so. Any of you who are going to be in New York
during the next few months can contact him directly.
Bill's overall record has been very good-averaging fairly close to BPL's, but with considerably greater variation.
From 1956-1961 and from 1964-1968, a composite of his individual accounts averaged over 40% per annum.
However, in 1962, undoubtedly somewhat as a product of the euphoric experience of the earlier years, he was
down about 50%. As he re-oriented his thinking, 1963 was about breakeven.
While two years may sound like a short time when included in a table of performance, it may feel like a long
time when your net worth is down 50%. I think you run this sort of short-term risk with virtually any money
manager operating in stocks and it is a factor to consider in deciding the portion of your capital to commit to
equities. To date in 1969, Bill is down about 15%, which I believe to be fairly typical of most money managers.
Bill, of course, has not been in control situations or workouts, which have usually tended to moderate the swings
in BPL year-to-year performance. Even excluding these factors, I believe his performance would have been
somewhat more volatile (but not necessarily poorer by any means) than mine - his style is different, and while
his typical portfolio (under most conditions) would tend to have a mild overlap with mine, there would always
be very significant differences.
133

Bill has achieved his results working with an average of $5 to $10 million. I consider the three most likely
negative factors in his future to be: (1) the probability of managing significantly larger sums - this is a problem
you are going to have rather quickly with any successful money manager, and it will tend to moderate
performance; I believe Bill's firm is now managing $20 -$30 million and, of course, they will continue to add
accounts; (2) the possibility of Bill's becoming too involved in the detail of his operation rather than spending all
of his time simply thinking about money management. The problems of being the principal factor in a NYSE
firm as well as handling many individual accounts can mean that he, like most investment advisors, will be
subject to pressures to spend much of his time in activities that do nothing to lead to superior investment
performance. In this connection, I have asked Bill to make his services available to all BPL partners - large or
small and he will, but I have also told him he is completely a free agent if he finds particular clients diverting
him from his main job; (3) the high probability that even excellent investment management during the next
decade will only produce limited advantages over passive management. I will comment on this below.
The final point regarding the negatives listed above is that they are not the sort of drawbacks leading to horrible
performance, but more likely the sort of things that lead to average performance. I think this is the main risk you
run with Bill - and average performance is just not that terrible a risk.
In recommending Bill, I am engaging in the sort of activity I have tried to avoid in BPL portfolio activities - a
decision where there is nothing to gain (personally) and considerable to lose. Some of my friends who are not in
the Partnership have suggested that I make no recommendation since, if results were excellent it would do me
no good and, if something went wrong, I might well get a portion of the blame. If you and I had just had a
normal commercial relationship, such reasoning might be sound. However, the degree of trust partners have
extended to me and the cooperation manifested in various ways precludes such a "hands off" policy. Many of
you are professional investors or close thereto and need no advice from me on managers - you may well do
better yourself. For those partners who are financially inexperienced. I feel it would be totally unfair for me to
assume a passive position and deliver you to the most persuasive salesman who happened to contact you early in
1970.
Finally, a word about expectations. A decade or so ago was quite willing to set a target of ten percentage points
per annum better than the Dow, with the expectation that the Dow would average about 7%. This meant an
expectancy for us of around 17%, with wide variations and no guarantees, of course - but, nevertheless, an
expectancy. Tax-free bonds at the time yielded about 3%. While stocks had the disadvantage of irregular
performance, overall they seemed much the more desirable option. I also stressed this preference for stocks in
teaching classes, participating in panel discussions, etc…
For the first time in my investment lifetime. I now believe there is little choice for the average investor between
professionally managed money in stocks and passive investment in bonds. If correct. this view has important
implications. Let me briefly (and in somewhat oversimplified form) set out the situation as I see it:
(1) I am talking about the situation for, say, a taxpayer in a 40% Federal Income Tax bracket who also has
some State Income Tax to pay. Various changes are being proposed in the tax laws, which may
adversely affect net results from presently tax-exempt income, capital gains, and perhaps other types of
investment income. More proposals will probably come in the future. Overall, I feel such changes over
the years will not negate my relative expectations about after-tax income from presently tax-free bonds
versus common stocks, and may well even mildly reinforce them.
(2) I am talking about expectations over the next ten years - not the next weeks or months. I find it much
easier to think about what should develop over a relatively long period of time than what is likely in any
short period. As Ben Graham said: “In the long run, the market is a weighing machine - in the short run,
a voting machine.” I have always found it easier to evaluate weights dictated by fundamentals than
votes dictated by psychology.
134

(3) Purely passive investment in tax-free bonds will now bring about 6-1/2%. This yield can be achieved
with excellent quality and locked up for just about any period for which the investor wishes to contract.
Such conditions may not exist in March when Bill and I will be available to assist you in bond
purchases, but they exist today.
(4) The ten year expectation for corporate stocks as a group is probably not better than 9% overall. say 3%
dividends and 6% gain in value. I would doubt that Gross National Product grows more than 6% per
annum - I don't believe corporate profits are likely to grow significantly as a percentage of GNP - and if
earnings multipliers don't change (and with these assumptions and present interest rates they shouldn't)
the aggregate valuation of American corporate enterprise should not grow at a long-term compounded
rate above 6% per annum. This typical experience in stocks might produce (for the taxpayer described
earlier) 1-3/4% after tax from dividends and 4-3/4% after tax from capital gain, for a total after-tax
return of about 6-1/2%. The pre-tax mix between dividends and capital gains might be more like 4% and
5%, giving a slightly lower aftertax result. This is not far from historical experience and overall, I
believe future tax rules on capital gains are likely to be stiffer than in the past.
(5) Finally, probably half the money invested in stocks over the next decade will be professionally
managed. Thus, by definition virtually, the total investor experience with professionally managed
money will be average results (or 6-1/2% after tax if my assumptions above are correct).
My judgment would be that less than 10% of professionally managed money (which might imply an
average of $40 billion just for this superior segment) handled consistently for the decade would average
2 points per annum over group expectancy. So-called "aggressively run" money is unlikely to do
significantly better than the general run of professionally managed money. There is probably $50 billion
in various gradations of this "aggressive" category now - maybe 100 times that of a decade ago - and
$50 billion just can't "perform".
If you are extremely fortunate and select advisors who achieve results in the top 1% to 2% of the
country (but who will be working with material sums of money because they are that good), I think it is
unlikely you will do much more than 4 points per annum better than the group expectancy. I think the
odds are good that Bill Ruane is in this select category. My estimate . therefore, is that over the next
decade the results of really excellent management for our "typical taxpayer" after tax might be 1-3/4%
from dividends and 7-3/4% from capital gain. or 9 –1.2% overall.
(6) The rather startling conclusion is that under today's historically unusual conditions, passive investment
in tax-free bonds is likely to be fully the equivalent of expectations from professionally managed money
in stocks, and only modestly inferior to extremely well-managed equity money.
(7) A word about inflation - it has very little to do with the above calculation except that it enters into the
6% assumed growth rate in GNP and contributes to the causes producing 6-1/2% on tax-free bonds. If
stocks should produce 8% after tax and bonds 4%, stocks are better to own than bonds, regardless of
whether prices go up, down or sidewise. The converse is true if bonds produce 6-1/2% after tax. and
stocks 6%. The simple truth, of course, is that the best expectable after-tax rate of return makes the most
sense - given a rising, declining or stable dollar.
All of the above should be viewed with all the suspicion properly accorded to assessments of the future. It does
seem to me to be the most realistic evaluation of what is always an uncertain future - I present it with no great
feeling regarding its approximate accuracy, but only so you will know what I think at this time.
You will have to make your own decision as between bonds and stocks and, if the latter, who advises you on
135

such stocks. In many cases, I think the decision should largely reflect your tangible and intangible
(temperamental) needs for regularity of income and absence of large principal fluctuation, perhaps balanced
against psychic needs for some excitement and the fun associated with contemplating and perhaps enjoying
really juicy results. If you would like to talk over the problem with me, I will be very happy to help.
Sincerely,
Warren E. Buffett
WEB/glk
136

BUFFETT PARTNERSHIP. LTD.
610 KIEWIT PLAZA
OMAHA, NEBRASKA 68131
TELEPHONE 042-4110
December 5th , 1969
To My Partners:
This letter is to supply you with some published information relating to our two controlled companies (and their
four principal operating components), as well as to give you my general views regarding their operations. My
comments are not designed to give you loads of detailed information prospectus-style, but only my general
"slant" as I see the businesses at this time.
At yearend, BPL will own 800,000 of 1,000,000 shares outstanding of Diversified Retailing Company. First
Manhattan Company and Wheeler, Munger & Company will each own 100,000 shares. DRC previously owned
100% of Hochschild, Kohn & Company of Baltimore, and currently owns 100% of Associated Retail Stores
(formerly named Associated Cotton Shops). On December 1st, DRC sold its entire interest in H-K to
Supermarkets General Corp. for $5,045,205 of cash plus non-interest bearing SGC notes for $2 million due 2-1-
70, and $4,540,000 due 2-1-71. The present value of these notes approximates $6.0 million so, effectively, DRC
received about $11 million on the sale. Various warranties were made by DRC in connection with the sale, and,
while we expect no claims pursuant to the contract, a remote contingent liability always exists while warranties
are in force.
Associated Retail Stores has a net worth of about $7.5 million. It is an excellent business with a strong financial
position, good operating margins and a record of increasing sales and earnings in recent years. Last year, sales
were about $37.5 million and net income about $1 million. This
year should see new records in sales and earnings, with my guess on the latter to be in the area of $1.1 million
after full taxes.
DRC has $6.6 million in debentures outstanding (prospectus with full description of the business as of
December 18th, 1967 and the debenture terms will be sent you upon request) which have one unusual feature in
that if I, or an entity controlled by me, is not the largest shareholder of DRC, the debentureholders have the right
to present their debentures for payment by the company at par.
Thus, DRC has tangible net assets of about $11.50 - $12.00 per share, an excellent operating business and
substantial funds available for reinvestment in other operating businesses. On an interim basis, such funds will
be employed in marketable securities.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has 983,582 shares outstanding, of which BPL owns 691,441. B-H has three main
operating businesses, the textile operation, the insurance operation (conducted by National Indemnity Company
and National Fire & Marine Insurance Company, which will be collectively called the insurance company) and
the Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Rockford, Illinois. It also owns Sun Newspapers Inc, Blacker
Printing Company and 70% of Gateway Underwriters, but these operations are not financially significant
relative to the total.
The textile operation presently employs about $16 per share in capital and, while I think it has made some
progress relative to the textile industry generally, cannot be judged a satisfactory business. Its return on capital
has not been sufficient to support the assets employed in the business and, realistically, an adequate return has
less than an even chance of being averaged in the future. It represents the best segments of the business that
existed when we purchased control four and one-half years ago. Capital from the other segments has been
137

successfully redeployed - first, on an interim basis into marketable securities and, now on a permanent basis into
insurance and banking. I like the textile operating people - they have worked hard to improve the business under
difficult conditions - and, despite the poor return, we expect to continue the textile operation as long as it
produces near current levels.
The insurance operation (of which B-H owns virtually 100%) and the bank (where B-H owns 97.7%) present a
much happier picture. Both are first-class businesses, earning good returns on capital and stacking up well on
any absolute or comparative analysis of operating statistics. The bank has about $17 per share of net tangible
assets applicable to B-H, and the insurance company approximately $15. I would estimate their normal current
earning power to be about $4 per share (compared to about $3.40 from operations pro-forma in 1968), with good
prospects for future growth on the combined $32 of tangible net assets in the bank and insurance company.
Adding in the textile business and miscellaneous assets, and subtracting parent company bank debt of about $7
million, gives a tangible net asset value of about $43 per share for B-H, or about $45 stated book value, allowing
for the premium over tangible assets paid for the bank.
One caveat - when I talk above of tangible net assets. I am valuing the $75 million of bonds held by the
insurance company and bank at amortized cost. This is in accord with standard accounting procedures used in
those industries and also in accord with the realities of their business operations where it is quite unlikely that
bonds will have to be sold before maturity. At today's historically low bond prices, however, our bonds have a
market value substantially below carrying value, probably on the order of $10 per share of B-H stock.
Between DRC and B-H, we have four main operating businesses with three of them in my opinion, definitely
first class by any of the usual standards of evaluation. The three excellent businesses are all run by men over
sixty who are largely responsible for building each operation from scratch. These men are hard working,
wealthy, and good – extraordinarily good. Their age is a negative, but it is the only negative applicable to them.
One of the reasons I am happy to have a large segment of my capital in B-H and DRC is because we have such
excellent men in charge of the operating businesses.
We have various annual reports, audits, interim reports, proxy materials prospectuses, etc… applicable to our
control holdings and we will be glad to supply you with any item you request. I also solicit your written
questions and will send to all partners the questions and answers shortly before yearend. Don't hesitate to ask
any question at all that comes to mind - if it isn't clear to you, it probably isn't clear to others - and there is no
reason for any of you to be wondering about something that I might clear up.
DRC and B-H presently pay no dividends and will probably pay either no dividends or very modest dividends
for some years to come. There are a number of reasons for this. Both parent companies have borrowed money -
we want to maintain a good level of protection for depositors at the bank and policyholders at the insurance
company - some of the operating companies have very satisfactory ways to utilize additional capital - and we are
hopeful of finding new businesses to both diversify and augment our earning power.
My personal opinion is that the intrinsic value of DRC and B-H will grow substantially over the years. While no
one knows the future, I would be disappointed if such growth wasn't at a rate of approximately 10% per annum.
Market prices for stocks fluctuate at great amplitudes around intrinsic value but, over the long term, intrinsic
value is virtually always reflected at some point in market price. Thus, I think both securities should be very
decent long-term holdings and I am happy to have a substantial portion of my net worth invested in them. You
should be unconcerned about short-term price action when you own the securities directly, just as you were
unconcerned when you owned them indirectly through BPL. I think about them as businesses, not “stocks”, and
if the business does all right over the long term, so will the stock.
I want to stress that I will not be in a managerial or partnership status with you regarding your future holdings of
such securities. You will be free to do what you wish with your stock in the future and so, of course, will I. I
138

think that there is a very high probability that I will maintain my investment in DRC and B-H for a very long
period, but I want no implied moral commitment to do so nor do so nor do I wish to advise others over an
indefinite future period regarding their holdings. The companies, of course, will keep all shareholders advised of
their activities and you will receive reports as issued by them, probably on a semi-annual basis. Should I
continue to hold the securities, as I fully expect to do, my degree of involvement in their activities may vary
depending upon my other interests. The odds are that I will take an important position on matters of policy, but I
want no moral obligation to be other than a passive shareholder, should my interests develop elsewhere.
We presently plan to make the initial BPL cash distribution on January 5th, which will now come to at least
64% of January 1, 1969 capital less any distributions (including monthly payments) you have received from us
since January 1, 1969. There is now pending a public offering, headed by Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith, of our Blue Chip Stamps holdings which, if completed this month as expected, should bring the figure to
at least 70%.
If you wish Bill and me to give you our ideas regarding bonds in March, you should purchase U.S. Treasury
Bills maturing in late March with the applicable portion of the January 5th distribution. Then advise us in the
last week of February of the amount you wish to invest in bonds and we will let you know our thoughts.
About the middle of January (as soon as the exact amounts are figured and shares are received from the Transfer
Agent after having been registered in your name) we will distribute the DRC and B-H stock applicable to your
partnership interest and subsequently advise you of your tax basis and acquisition date attributable to the stock.
Such shares will be "legended" as described in the enclosed letter from Monen, Seidler & Ryan. These stock
certificates are valuable and should be kept in a safe place.
In past letters I had expressed the hope that BPL could supply a mechanism whereby you could, if you wished,
automatically convert your DRC and B-H to cash. I have had two law firms consider extensively the status of
these shares in your hands following the liquidation and the accompanying letters (which should be saved and
kept with the shares) give their conclusions. As you can see, it is not an area that produces simple, clear-cut
guidelines. I see no prudent way to implement the alternatives I had previously been considering. Therefore, you
must follow the guidelines they set forth if you wish to dispose of your shares. As you probably realize, the
restrictions on subsequent sale apply more severely to Susie and me (because of my continued "insider"
position) than they probably do to you. Substantial quantities of securities often are sold via the "private sale"
option described in paragraph (3) of the opinion. If the rules become clearer or more simplified in the future, I
will be sure to let you know.
At the time of distribution of DRC and B-H, I will advise you of the values applied to such shares at 1969
yearend. You will receive our audit and tax letter about the end of January. It presently appears that sale of our
Blue Chip shares and a substantial increase in value of DRC and B- H will bring our overall gain for the year to
slightly over 6%.
My next letter will be in late December, summarizing the questions and answers regarding DRC and B-H. and
also supplying a final estimate on the January 5th cash distribution.
Warren E. Buffett
WEBI glk
Enclosures:
Legal opinion. Monen, Seidler & Ryan
Concurring opinion, Munger, Tolles. Hills & Rickershauser 1968 Annual Report. Berkshire Hathaway. Inc.
1969 Semi-Annual Report. Berkshire Hathaway. Inc.
April 3. 1969 letter to Shareholders. Berkshire Hathaway. Inc. 1968 Annual Report. Diversified Retailing
139

Company. Inc.
Financial information regarding Associated Retail Stores. Inc. Financial information regarding Illinois National
Bank & Trust Co. 1969 Best's Report. National Indemnity Company
1969 Best's Report. National Fire & Marine Insurance Company
140

BUFFETT PARTNERSHIP. LTD.
610 KIEWIT PLAZA
OMAHA, NEBRASKA 68131
TELEPHONE 042-4110